workflows.md, before:

Workflows encompass one or more Public or Custom model(s). Every workflow is attached to one of your applications. Under each workflow, you will see a list of the public models and all custom models in that application when selecting models to add to your workflow. With Workflow Predict, you will be able to reduce the latency and in turn make your product more efficient.

Note: this won't have any impact on the price you are charged per call. You will still be charged for the same operation if it were separate calls to the API.

### Workflow Setup
To set up a workflow, you will need to head over to the
[Applications page](https://portal.clarifai.com/apps) through your account.
From there, you will need to select which application you want to create the
workflow under.

![Image showing the top-level Applications page on
the Clarifai Developer website](/images/application-screen-new.png)

Then under that application, you will see a section labeled "App Workflows" and a button to
"Create Workflow".

![Image showing My First Application and the Create Workflow button underneath the
Create API Key](/images/create-workflow-new.png)

After that, the page will reveal a new workflow form to fill out. Fill out the
Workflow ID field, this will be used to make the API call, so make sure to
give it something URL friendly! Included there, you will also a list that consists of a model
field and a version associated with it. For the public models, you will be mandated
to use the latest version. For your custom models, you will be able to
[select the version of your model](models.md#list-model-versions)</a>. To add another model, you will just click underneath your
latest addition on the "Add Model". The max limit of models associated with any given workflow
is 5 models. If you would like to remove a model, there is a
large X that will allow you to remove a model. Once you have finished adding everything,
press the "Save Workflow" button and that will save the state of your workflow. Now you are ready
to predict using your brand new workflow. You can edit a given workflow at any
time, in case you don't like it.

![Image showing a list of models (Moderation and General)
under a workflow with the name my-workflow](/images/my-workflow-new.png)

### Workflow Predict
The Workflow Predict API allows you to predict using 1 or more model(s), regardless of them
being public or custom, within a single API call! The max number of inputs processed at once with
any given workflow is 32.

Now that you have that all set up, you will be able to predict under a workflow using
the `POST /v2/workflows/{workflow_id}/results` endpoint. Your `{workflow-id}` currently is whatever
you set as your ID. Then as far as your request body, nothing has changed with how you
would normally do a predict. In the response body, you will see a `results` object and each
object will be the response from the models in the same ordering from the workflow you set up.

![Image showing the Portal's workflow prediction results](/images/preview-workflows-new.png)

You can also use the Explorer in Clarifai Portal to see the results of your workflow's predictions on
a given input.



{% code-tabs %}
{% code-tabs-item title="js" %}
```js
app.workflow.predict('{workflow-id}', "https://samples.clarifai.com/metro-north.jpg").then(
    function(response){
      // Do something with response
    },
    function(err){
      // There was an error
    }
);
```

{% endcode-tabs-item %}

{% code-tabs-item title="python" %}
```python
from clarifai.rest import ClarifaiApp
from clarifai.rest import Workflow

app = ClarifaiApp(api_key='YOUR_API_KEY')
workflow = Workflow(app.api, workflow_id="YOUR_WORKFLOW_ID")

response = workflow.predict_by_url('https://samples.clarifai.com/metro-north.jpg')
```

{% endcode-tabs-item %}

{% code-tabs-item title="java" %}
```java
client.workflowPredict("{workflow-id}")
        .withInputs(ClarifaiInput.forImage("https://samples.clarifai.com/metro-north.jpg"))
        .executeSync();
```

{% endcode-tabs-item %}

{% code-tabs-item title="csharp" %}
```csharp

using System.Collections.Generic;
using System.Threading.Tasks;
using Clarifai.API;
using Clarifai.DTOs.Inputs;

namespace YourNamespace
{
    public class YourClassName
    {
        public static async Task Main()
        {
            var client = new ClarifaiClient("YOUR_API_KEY");

            await client.WorkflowPredict(
                    "{workflow-id}",
                    new List<IClarifaiInput>
                    {
                        new ClarifaiURLImage("https://samples.clarifai.com/puppy.jpg")
                    })
                .ExecuteAsync();
        }
    }
}

```

{% endcode-tabs-item %}

{% code-tabs-item title="objective-c" %}
```objective-c
// Coming Soon
```

{% endcode-tabs-item %}

{% code-tabs-item title="php" %}
```php

use Clarifai\API\ClarifaiClient;
use Clarifai\DTOs\Inputs\ClarifaiURLImage;
use Clarifai\DTOs\Predictions\Concept;
use Clarifai\DTOs\Workflows\WorkflowPredictResult;

$client = new ClarifaiClient('YOUR_API_KEY');

$response = $client->workflowPredict('your-workflow-id',
        new ClarifaiURLImage('https://samples.clarifai.com/puppy.jpeg'))
    ->executeSync();

if ($response-> isSuccessful()) {
    echo "Response is successful.\n";

    /** @var WorkflowPredictResult $workflowResult */
    $workflowResult = $response->get();

    echo "Predicted concepts:\n";
    /** @var Concept $concept */
    foreach ($workflowResult->workflowResult()->predictions() as $output) {
        echo 'Predictions for output ' . $output->id() . "\n";
        /** @var Concept $concept */
        foreach ($output->data() as $concept) {
            echo "\t" . $concept->name() . ': ' . $concept->value() . "\n";
        }
    }
} else {
    echo "Response is not successful. Reason: \n";
    echo $response->status()->description() . "\n";
    echo $response->status()->errorDetails() . "\n";
    echo "Status code: " . $response->status()->statusCode();
}

```

{% endcode-tabs-item %}

{% code-tabs-item title="cURL" %}
```cURL
curl -X POST \
  -H 'authorization: Key YOUR_API_KEY' \
  -H 'content-type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "inputs": [
        {
          "data": {
            "image": {
              "url": "https://samples.clarifai.com/metro-north.jpg"
          }
        }
      }
    ]
}'\
https://api.clarifai.com/v2/workflows/{workflow-id}/results
```
{% endcode-tabs-item %}
{% endcode-tabs %}



{% code-tabs %}
{% code-tabs-item title="Response JSON" %}
```json
{
  "status": {
    "code": 10000,
    "description": "Ok"
  },
  "workflow": {
    "id": "my-workflow",
    "app_id": "c54b7637df12407aa9c57dfd6d5c057f",
    "created_at": "2017-07-10T01:45:05.672880Z"
  },
  "results": [
    {
      "status": {
        "code": 10000,
        "description": "Ok"
      },
      "input": {
        "id": "c88aeed9d04c471cace6f8e4801f1a1c",
        "data": {
          "image": {
            "url": "https://samples.clarifai.com/metro-north.jpg"
          }
        }
      },
      "outputs": [
        {
          "id": "feae971167a04d1bbebb7ea49d6ba0f7",
          "status": {
            "code": 10000,
            "description": "Ok"
          },
          "created_at": "2017-07-10T12:01:44.929928529Z",
          "model": {
            "id": "d16f390eb32cad478c7ae150069bd2c6",
            "name": "moderation",
            "created_at": "2017-05-12T21:28:00.471607Z",
            "app_id": "main",
            "output_info": {
              "message": "Show output_info with: GET /models/{model_id}/output_info",
              "type": "concept",
              "type_ext": "concept"
            },
            "model_version": {
              "id": "b42ac907ac93483484483a0040a386be",
              "created_at": "2017-05-12T21:28:00.471607Z",
              "status": {
                "code": 21100,
                "description": "Model trained successfully"
              }
            }
          },
          "data": {
            "concepts": [
              {
                "id": "ai_QD1zClSd",
                "name": "safe",
                "value": 0.99999714,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_kBBGf7r8",
                "name": "gore",
                "value": 3.7771046e-05,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_8QQwMjQR",
                "name": "drug",
                "value": 1.0449563e-05,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_V76bvrtj",
                "name": "explicit",
                "value": 5.2887003e-06,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_RtXh5qkR",
                "name": "suggestive",
                "value": 4.7939684e-06,
                "app_id": "main"
              }
            ]
          }
        },
        {
          "id": "f635b40cbeee47ddb7b348a981e14faf",
          "status": {
            "code": 10000,
            "description": "Ok"
          },
          "created_at": "2017-07-10T12:01:44.929941126Z",
          "model": {
            "id": "aaa03c23b3724a16a56b629203edc62c",
            "name": "general-v1.3",
            "created_at": "2016-02-26T23:38:40.086101Z",
            "app_id": "main",
            "output_info": {
              "message": "Show output_info with: GET /models/{model_id}/output_info",
              "type": "concept",
              "type_ext": "concept"
            },
            "model_version": {
              "id": "aa9ca48295b37401f8af92ad1af0d91d",
              "created_at": "2016-07-13T00:58:55.915745Z",
              "status": {
                "code": 21100,
                "description": "Model trained successfully"
              }
            }
          },
          "data": {
            "concepts": [
              {
                "id": "ai_HLmqFqBf",
                "name": "train",
                "value": 0.9989112,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_fvlBqXZR",
                "name": "railway",
                "value": 0.9975532,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_Xxjc3MhT",
                "name": "transportation system",
                "value": 0.9959158,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_6kTjGfF6",
                "name": "station",
                "value": 0.992573,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_RRXLczch",
                "name": "locomotive",
                "value": 0.992556,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_VRmbGVWh",
                "name": "travel",
                "value": 0.98789215,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_SHNDcmJ3",
                "name": "subway system",
                "value": 0.9816359,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_jlb9q33b",
                "name": "commuter",
                "value": 0.9712483,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_46lGZ4Gm",
                "name": "railroad track",
                "value": 0.9690325,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_tr0MBp64",
                "name": "traffic",
                "value": 0.9687052,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_l4WckcJN",
                "name": "blur",
                "value": 0.9667078,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_2gkfMDsM",
                "name": "platform",
                "value": 0.9624243,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_CpFBRWzD",
                "name": "urban",
                "value": 0.960752,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_786Zr311",
                "name": "no person",
                "value": 0.95864904,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_6lhccv44",
                "name": "business",
                "value": 0.95720303,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_971KsJkn",
                "name": "track",
                "value": 0.9494642,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_WBQfVV0p",
                "name": "city",
                "value": 0.94089437,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_dSCKh8xv",
                "name": "fast",
                "value": 0.9399334,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_TZ3C79C6",
                "name": "road",
                "value": 0.93121606,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_VSVscs9k",
                "name": "terminal",
                "value": 0.9230834,
                "app_id": "main"
              }
            ]
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```
{% endcode-tabs-item %}
{% endcode-tabs %}

Commit message:

address comments [Jeff] (#35)
* address comments

* remove worker scope

* updated changelog

* spell checked

* further tightening

* updated scope list

Co-authored-by: Matthew Zeiler <zeiler@clarifai.com>

workflows.md, after:

Workflows are a graph of computation that encompass one or more Clarifai or Custom model(s). Every workflow is attached to one of your applications. Under each workflow, you will see a list of the Clarifai Models and all custom models in that application when selecting models to add to your workflow. With Workflow Predict, you will be able to reduce the latency and in turn make your product more efficient.

Note: this won't have any impact on the price you are charged per call. You will still be charged for the same operation if it were separate calls to the API.

### Workflow Setup
To set up a workflow, you will need to head over to the
[Applications page](https://portal.clarifai.com/apps) through your account.
From there, you will need to select which application you want to create the
workflow under.

![Image showing the top-level Applications page on
the Clarifai Developer website](/images/application-screen-new.png)

Then under that application, you will see a section labeled "App Workflows" and a button to
"Create Workflow".

![Image showing My First Application and the Create Workflow button underneath the
Create API Key](/images/create-workflow-new.png)

After that, the page will reveal a new workflow form to fill out. Fill out the
Workflow ID field, this will be used to make the API call, so make sure to
give it something URL friendly! Included there, you will also a list that consists of a model
field and a version associated with it. For Clarifai Models, you will be mandated
to use the latest version. For your custom models, you will be able to
[select the version of your model](models.md#list-model-versions)</a>. To add another model, you will just click underneath your
latest addition on the "Add Model". The max limit of models associated with any given workflow
is 5 models. If you would like to remove a model, there is a
large X that will allow you to remove a model. Once you have finished adding everything,
press the "Save Workflow" button and that will save the state of your workflow. Now you are ready
to predict using your brand new workflow. You can edit a given workflow at any
time, in case you don't like it.

![Image showing a list of models (Moderation and General)
under a workflow with the name my-workflow](/images/my-workflow-new.png)

### Workflow Predict
The Workflow Predict API allows you to predict using 1 or more model(s), regardless of them
being Clarifai or custom, within a single API call! The max number of inputs processed at once with
any given workflow is 32.

Now that you have that all set up, you will be able to predict under a workflow using
the `POST /v2/workflows/{workflow_id}/results` endpoint. Your `{workflow-id}` currently is whatever
you set as your ID. Then as far as your request body, nothing has changed with how you
would normally do a predict. In the response body, you will see a `results` object and each
object will be the response from the models in the same ordering from the workflow you set up.

![Image showing the Portal's workflow prediction results](/images/preview-workflows-new.png)

You can also use the Explorer in Clarifai Portal to see the results of your workflow's predictions on
a given input.



{% code-tabs %}
{% code-tabs-item title="js" %}
```js
app.workflow.predict('{workflow-id}', "https://samples.clarifai.com/metro-north.jpg").then(
    function(response){
      // Do something with response
    },
    function(err){
      // There was an error
    }
);
```

{% endcode-tabs-item %}

{% code-tabs-item title="python" %}
```python
from clarifai.rest import ClarifaiApp
from clarifai.rest import Workflow

app = ClarifaiApp(api_key='YOUR_API_KEY')
workflow = Workflow(app.api, workflow_id="YOUR_WORKFLOW_ID")

response = workflow.predict_by_url('https://samples.clarifai.com/metro-north.jpg')
```

{% endcode-tabs-item %}

{% code-tabs-item title="java" %}
```java
client.workflowPredict("{workflow-id}")
        .withInputs(ClarifaiInput.forImage("https://samples.clarifai.com/metro-north.jpg"))
        .executeSync();
```

{% endcode-tabs-item %}

{% code-tabs-item title="csharp" %}
```csharp

using System.Collections.Generic;
using System.Threading.Tasks;
using Clarifai.API;
using Clarifai.DTOs.Inputs;

namespace YourNamespace
{
    public class YourClassName
    {
        public static async Task Main()
        {
            var client = new ClarifaiClient("YOUR_API_KEY");

            await client.WorkflowPredict(
                    "{workflow-id}",
                    new List<IClarifaiInput>
                    {
                        new ClarifaiURLImage("https://samples.clarifai.com/puppy.jpg")
                    })
                .ExecuteAsync();
        }
    }
}

```

{% endcode-tabs-item %}

{% code-tabs-item title="objective-c" %}
```objective-c
// Coming Soon
```

{% endcode-tabs-item %}

{% code-tabs-item title="php" %}
```php

use Clarifai\API\ClarifaiClient;
use Clarifai\DTOs\Inputs\ClarifaiURLImage;
use Clarifai\DTOs\Predictions\Concept;
use Clarifai\DTOs\Workflows\WorkflowPredictResult;

$client = new ClarifaiClient('YOUR_API_KEY');

$response = $client->workflowPredict('your-workflow-id',
        new ClarifaiURLImage('https://samples.clarifai.com/puppy.jpeg'))
    ->executeSync();

if ($response-> isSuccessful()) {
    echo "Response is successful.\n";

    /** @var WorkflowPredictResult $workflowResult */
    $workflowResult = $response->get();

    echo "Predicted concepts:\n";
    /** @var Concept $concept */
    foreach ($workflowResult->workflowResult()->predictions() as $output) {
        echo 'Predictions for output ' . $output->id() . "\n";
        /** @var Concept $concept */
        foreach ($output->data() as $concept) {
            echo "\t" . $concept->name() . ': ' . $concept->value() . "\n";
        }
    }
} else {
    echo "Response is not successful. Reason: \n";
    echo $response->status()->description() . "\n";
    echo $response->status()->errorDetails() . "\n";
    echo "Status code: " . $response->status()->statusCode();
}

```

{% endcode-tabs-item %}

{% code-tabs-item title="cURL" %}
```cURL
curl -X POST \
  -H 'authorization: Key YOUR_API_KEY' \
  -H 'content-type: application/json' \
  -d '{
    "inputs": [
        {
          "data": {
            "image": {
              "url": "https://samples.clarifai.com/metro-north.jpg"
          }
        }
      }
    ]
}'\
https://api.clarifai.com/v2/workflows/{workflow-id}/results
```
{% endcode-tabs-item %}
{% endcode-tabs %}



{% code-tabs %}
{% code-tabs-item title="Response JSON" %}
```json
{
  "status": {
    "code": 10000,
    "description": "Ok"
  },
  "workflow": {
    "id": "my-workflow",
    "app_id": "c54b7637df12407aa9c57dfd6d5c057f",
    "created_at": "2017-07-10T01:45:05.672880Z"
  },
  "results": [
    {
      "status": {
        "code": 10000,
        "description": "Ok"
      },
      "input": {
        "id": "c88aeed9d04c471cace6f8e4801f1a1c",
        "data": {
          "image": {
            "url": "https://samples.clarifai.com/metro-north.jpg"
          }
        }
      },
      "outputs": [
        {
          "id": "feae971167a04d1bbebb7ea49d6ba0f7",
          "status": {
            "code": 10000,
            "description": "Ok"
          },
          "created_at": "2017-07-10T12:01:44.929928529Z",
          "model": {
            "id": "d16f390eb32cad478c7ae150069bd2c6",
            "name": "moderation",
            "created_at": "2017-05-12T21:28:00.471607Z",
            "app_id": "main",
            "output_info": {
              "message": "Show output_info with: GET /models/{model_id}/output_info",
              "type": "concept",
              "type_ext": "concept"
            },
            "model_version": {
              "id": "b42ac907ac93483484483a0040a386be",
              "created_at": "2017-05-12T21:28:00.471607Z",
              "status": {
                "code": 21100,
                "description": "Model trained successfully"
              }
            }
          },
          "data": {
            "concepts": [
              {
                "id": "ai_QD1zClSd",
                "name": "safe",
                "value": 0.99999714,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_kBBGf7r8",
                "name": "gore",
                "value": 3.7771046e-05,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_8QQwMjQR",
                "name": "drug",
                "value": 1.0449563e-05,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_V76bvrtj",
                "name": "explicit",
                "value": 5.2887003e-06,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_RtXh5qkR",
                "name": "suggestive",
                "value": 4.7939684e-06,
                "app_id": "main"
              }
            ]
          }
        },
        {
          "id": "f635b40cbeee47ddb7b348a981e14faf",
          "status": {
            "code": 10000,
            "description": "Ok"
          },
          "created_at": "2017-07-10T12:01:44.929941126Z",
          "model": {
            "id": "aaa03c23b3724a16a56b629203edc62c",
            "name": "general-v1.3",
            "created_at": "2016-02-26T23:38:40.086101Z",
            "app_id": "main",
            "output_info": {
              "message": "Show output_info with: GET /models/{model_id}/output_info",
              "type": "concept",
              "type_ext": "concept"
            },
            "model_version": {
              "id": "aa9ca48295b37401f8af92ad1af0d91d",
              "created_at": "2016-07-13T00:58:55.915745Z",
              "status": {
                "code": 21100,
                "description": "Model trained successfully"
              }
            }
          },
          "data": {
            "concepts": [
              {
                "id": "ai_HLmqFqBf",
                "name": "train",
                "value": 0.9989112,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_fvlBqXZR",
                "name": "railway",
                "value": 0.9975532,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_Xxjc3MhT",
                "name": "transportation system",
                "value": 0.9959158,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_6kTjGfF6",
                "name": "station",
                "value": 0.992573,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_RRXLczch",
                "name": "locomotive",
                "value": 0.992556,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_VRmbGVWh",
                "name": "travel",
                "value": 0.98789215,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_SHNDcmJ3",
                "name": "subway system",
                "value": 0.9816359,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_jlb9q33b",
                "name": "commuter",
                "value": 0.9712483,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_46lGZ4Gm",
                "name": "railroad track",
                "value": 0.9690325,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_tr0MBp64",
                "name": "traffic",
                "value": 0.9687052,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_l4WckcJN",
                "name": "blur",
                "value": 0.9667078,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_2gkfMDsM",
                "name": "platform",
                "value": 0.9624243,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_CpFBRWzD",
                "name": "urban",
                "value": 0.960752,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_786Zr311",
                "name": "no person",
                "value": 0.95864904,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_6lhccv44",
                "name": "business",
                "value": 0.95720303,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_971KsJkn",
                "name": "track",
                "value": 0.9494642,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_WBQfVV0p",
                "name": "city",
                "value": 0.94089437,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_dSCKh8xv",
                "name": "fast",
                "value": 0.9399334,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_TZ3C79C6",
                "name": "road",
                "value": 0.93121606,
                "app_id": "main"
              },
              {
                "id": "ai_VSVscs9k",
                "name": "terminal",
                "value": 0.9230834,
                "app_id": "main"
              }
            ]
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```
{% endcode-tabs-item %}
{% endcode-tabs %}
