api-guide/workflows/common-workflows/visual-text-recognition-walkthrough.md, before:

---
description: 'Work with text in images, just like you work with encoded text.'
---

# Visual Text Recognition

Visual text recognition helps you convert printed text in images and videos into machine-encoded text. You can input a scanned document, a photo of a document, a scene-photo \(such as the text on signs and billboards\), or text superimposed on an image \(such as in a meme\) and output the words and individual characters present in the images. VTR lets you "digitize" text so that it can be edited, searched, stored, displayed and analyzed.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/vtr%20%281%29%20%281%29%20%282%29%20%283%29%20%283%29%20%283%29%20%283%29%20%287%29%20%289%29%20%287%29.jpg)

{% hint style="info" %}
Please note: The current version of our VTR model is not designed for use with handwritten text, or documents with tightly-packed text \(like you might see on the page of a novel, for example\).
{% endhint %}

## How VTR works

VTR works by first detecting the location of text in your photos or video frames, then cropping the region where the text is present, and then finally running a specialized classification model that will extract text from the cropped image. To accomplish these different tasks, you will need to configure a workflow. You will then add these three models to your workflow:

* **Visual Text Detection**
* **1.0 Cropper**
* **Visual Text Recognition**

## Building a VTR workflow

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="gRPC Python" %}
```python
# Insert here the initialization code as outlined on this page:
# https://docs.clarifai.com/api-guide/api-overview/api-clients#client-installation-instructions

post_workflows_response = stub.PostWorkflows(
    service_pb2.PostWorkflowsRequest(
        user_app_id=resources_pb2.UserAppIDSet(
            app_id="cdd79189eb6f44049b6c5b58f14a87e6"
        ),
        workflows=[
            resources_pb2.Workflow(
                id="visual-text-recognition-id",
                nodes=[
                    resources_pb2.WorkflowNode(
                        id="detect-concept",
                        model=resources_pb2.Model(
                            id="2419e2eae04d04f820e5cf3aba42d0c7",
                            model_version=resources_pb2.ModelVersion(
                                id="75a5b92a0dec436a891b5ad224ac9170"
                            )
                        )
                    ),
                    resources_pb2.WorkflowNode(
                        id="image-crop",
                        model=resources_pb2.Model(
                            id="ce3f5832af7a4e56ae310d696cbbefd8",
                            model_version=resources_pb2.ModelVersion(
                                id="a78efb13f7774433aa2fd4864f41f0e6"
                                )
                            ),
                            node_inputs=[
                                resources_pb2.NodeInput(node_id="detect-concept")
                            ]
                        ),
                    resources_pb2.WorkflowNode(
                        id="image-to-text",
                        model=resources_pb2.Model(
                            id="9fe78b4150a52794f86f237770141b33",
                            model_version=resources_pb2.ModelVersion(
                                id="d94413e582f341f68884cac72dbd2c7b"
                                )
                            ),
                            node_inputs=[
                                resources_pb2.NodeInput(node_id="image-crop")
                            ]
                        ),
                ]
            )
        ]
    ),
    metadata=metadata
)

if post_workflows_response.status.code != status_code_pb2.SUCCESS:
    raise Exception("Post workflows failed, status: " + post_workflows_response.status.description)
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="gRPC Java" %}
```java
import com.clarifai.grpc.api.*;
import com.clarifai.grpc.api.status.*;

// Insert here the initialization code as outlined on this page:
// https://docs.clarifai.com/api-guide/api-overview/api-clients#client-installation-instructions

MultiWorkflowResponse postWorkflowsResponse = stub.postWorkflows(
  PostWorkflowsRequest.newBuilder()
      .setUserAppId(UserAppIDSet.newBuilder().setAppId("{YOUR_APP_ID}"))
      .addWorkflows(
          Workflow.newBuilder()
              .setId("visual-text-recognition-id")
              .addNodes(
                  WorkflowNode.newBuilder()
                      .setId("detect-concept")
                      .setModel(
                          Model.newBuilder()
                              .setId("2419e2eae04d04f820e5cf3aba42d0c7")
                              .setModelVersion(
                                  ModelVersion.newBuilder()
                                      .setId("75a5b92a0dec436a891b5ad224ac9170")
                              )
                      )
              )
              .addNodes(
                  WorkflowNode.newBuilder()
                      .setId("image-crop")
                      .setModel(
                          Model.newBuilder()
                              .setId("ce3f5832af7a4e56ae310d696cbbefd8")
                              .setModelVersion(
                                  ModelVersion.newBuilder()
                                      .setId("a78efb13f7774433aa2fd4864f41f0e6")
                              )
                      )
                      .addNodeInputs(NodeInput.newBuilder().setNodeId("detect-concept"))
              )
              .addNodes(
                  WorkflowNode.newBuilder()
                      .setId("image-to-text")
                      .setModel(
                          Model.newBuilder()
                              .setId("9fe78b4150a52794f86f237770141b33")
                              .setModelVersion(
                                  ModelVersion.newBuilder()
                                      .setId("d94413e582f341f68884cac72dbd2c7b")
                              )
                      )
                      .addNodeInputs(NodeInput.newBuilder().setNodeId("image-crop"))
              )
      )
      .build()
);

if (postWorkflowsResponse.getStatus().getCode() != StatusCode.SUCCESS) {
    throw new RuntimeException("Post workflows failed, status: " + postWorkflowsResponse.getStatus());
}
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="gRPC NodeJS" %}
```javascript
// Insert here the initialization code as outlined on this page:
// https://docs.clarifai.com/api-guide/api-overview/api-clients#client-installation-instructions

stub.PostWorkflows(
    {
        user_app_id: {
            app_id: "e83440590d104cee97ef84af1856837d"
        },
        workflows: [
            {
                id: "visual-text-recognition-id",
                nodes: [
                    {
                        id: "detect-concept",
                        model: {
                            id: "2419e2eae04d04f820e5cf3aba42d0c7",
                            model_version: {
                                id: "75a5b92a0dec436a891b5ad224ac9170"
                            }
                        }
                    },
                    {
                        id: "image-crop",
                        model: {
                            id: "ce3f5832af7a4e56ae310d696cbbefd8",
                            model_version: {
                                id: "a78efb13f7774433aa2fd4864f41f0e6"
                            }
                        },
                        node_inputs: [
                            {node_id: "detect-concept"}
                        ]
                    },
                    {
                        id: "image-to-text",
                        model: {
                            id: "9fe78b4150a52794f86f237770141b33",
                            model_version: {
                                id: "d94413e582f341f68884cac72dbd2c7b"
                            }
                        },
                        node_inputs: [
                            {node_id: "image-crop"}
                        ]
                    },
                ]
            }
        ]
    },
    metadata,
    (err, response) => {
        if (err) {
            throw new Error(err);
        }

        if (response.status.code !== 10000) {
            console.log(response.status);
            throw new Error("Post workflows failed, status: " + response.status.description);
        }
    }
);
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="cURL" %}
```text
curl -X POST 'https://api.clarifai.com/v2/users/me/apps/{{app}}/workflows' \
    -H 'Authorization: Key {{PAT}}' \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    --data-raw '{
        "workflows": [
            {
                "id": "visual-text-recognition-id",
                "nodes": [
                    {
                        "id": "detect-concept",
                        "model": {
                            "id": "2419e2eae04d04f820e5cf3aba42d0c7",
                            "model_version": {
                                "id": "75a5b92a0dec436a891b5ad224ac9170"
                            }
                        }
                    },
                    {
                        "id": "image-crop",
                        "model": {
                            "id": "ce3f5832af7a4e56ae310d696cbbefd8",
                            "model_version": {
                                "id": "a78efb13f7774433aa2fd4864f41f0e6"
                            }
                        },
                        "node_inputs": [
                            {
                                "node_id": "general-concept"
                            }
                        ]
                    },
                    {
                        "id": "image-to-text",
                        "model": {
                            "id": "9fe78b4150a52794f86f237770141b33",
                            "model_version": {
                                "id": "d94413e582f341f68884cac72dbd2c7b"
                            }
                        },
                        "node_inputs": [
                            {
                                "node_id": "image-crop"
                            }
                        ]
                    },
                ]
            }
        ]
    }'
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Commit message:

Python PAT update (#133)
* Added in the UserAppIDSet construction for support using PATs in python

* Added in the UserAppIDSet construction for support using PATs in python, fix

* updated predict commands to support PATs in python

* This should update the auto annotation workflow for python to work with PAT, but needs to be tested

* add PAT for python in input nodes page

* update create and update workflows with PAT for python examples

* updated annotations python examples to support PAT

* updated python example to support PAT

* added PAT to python examples in workflows

Co-authored-by: jeffreytoffoli <59623770+jeffreytoffoli@users.noreply.github.com>

api-guide/workflows/common-workflows/visual-text-recognition-walkthrough.md, after:

---
description: 'Work with text in images, just like you work with encoded text.'
---

# Visual Text Recognition

Visual text recognition helps you convert printed text in images and videos into machine-encoded text. You can input a scanned document, a photo of a document, a scene-photo \(such as the text on signs and billboards\), or text superimposed on an image \(such as in a meme\) and output the words and individual characters present in the images. VTR lets you "digitize" text so that it can be edited, searched, stored, displayed and analyzed.

![](../../../.gitbook/assets/vtr%20%281%29%20%281%29%20%282%29%20%283%29%20%283%29%20%283%29%20%283%29%20%287%29%20%289%29%20%287%29.jpg)

{% hint style="info" %}
Please note: The current version of our VTR model is not designed for use with handwritten text, or documents with tightly-packed text \(like you might see on the page of a novel, for example\).
{% endhint %}

## How VTR works

VTR works by first detecting the location of text in your photos or video frames, then cropping the region where the text is present, and then finally running a specialized classification model that will extract text from the cropped image. To accomplish these different tasks, you will need to configure a workflow. You will then add these three models to your workflow:

* **Visual Text Detection**
* **1.0 Cropper**
* **Visual Text Recognition**

## Building a VTR workflow

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="gRPC Python" %}
```python
# Insert here the initialization code as outlined on this page:
# https://docs.clarifai.com/api-guide/api-overview/api-clients#client-installation-instructions

post_workflows_response = stub.PostWorkflows(
    service_pb2.PostWorkflowsRequest(
        user_app_id=userDataObject,  # The userDataObject is created in the overview and is required when using a PAT
        workflows=[
            resources_pb2.Workflow(
                id="visual-text-recognition-id",
                nodes=[
                    resources_pb2.WorkflowNode(
                        id="detect-concept",
                        model=resources_pb2.Model(
                            id="2419e2eae04d04f820e5cf3aba42d0c7",
                            model_version=resources_pb2.ModelVersion(
                                id="75a5b92a0dec436a891b5ad224ac9170"
                            )
                        )
                    ),
                    resources_pb2.WorkflowNode(
                        id="image-crop",
                        model=resources_pb2.Model(
                            id="ce3f5832af7a4e56ae310d696cbbefd8",
                            model_version=resources_pb2.ModelVersion(
                                id="a78efb13f7774433aa2fd4864f41f0e6"
                                )
                            ),
                            node_inputs=[
                                resources_pb2.NodeInput(node_id="detect-concept")
                            ]
                        ),
                    resources_pb2.WorkflowNode(
                        id="image-to-text",
                        model=resources_pb2.Model(
                            id="9fe78b4150a52794f86f237770141b33",
                            model_version=resources_pb2.ModelVersion(
                                id="d94413e582f341f68884cac72dbd2c7b"
                                )
                            ),
                            node_inputs=[
                                resources_pb2.NodeInput(node_id="image-crop")
                            ]
                        ),
                ]
            )
        ]
    ),
    metadata=metadata
)

if post_workflows_response.status.code != status_code_pb2.SUCCESS:
    raise Exception("Post workflows failed, status: " + post_workflows_response.status.description)
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="gRPC Java" %}
```java
import com.clarifai.grpc.api.*;
import com.clarifai.grpc.api.status.*;

// Insert here the initialization code as outlined on this page:
// https://docs.clarifai.com/api-guide/api-overview/api-clients#client-installation-instructions

MultiWorkflowResponse postWorkflowsResponse = stub.postWorkflows(
  PostWorkflowsRequest.newBuilder()
      .setUserAppId(UserAppIDSet.newBuilder().setAppId("{YOUR_APP_ID}"))
      .addWorkflows(
          Workflow.newBuilder()
              .setId("visual-text-recognition-id")
              .addNodes(
                  WorkflowNode.newBuilder()
                      .setId("detect-concept")
                      .setModel(
                          Model.newBuilder()
                              .setId("2419e2eae04d04f820e5cf3aba42d0c7")
                              .setModelVersion(
                                  ModelVersion.newBuilder()
                                      .setId("75a5b92a0dec436a891b5ad224ac9170")
                              )
                      )
              )
              .addNodes(
                  WorkflowNode.newBuilder()
                      .setId("image-crop")
                      .setModel(
                          Model.newBuilder()
                              .setId("ce3f5832af7a4e56ae310d696cbbefd8")
                              .setModelVersion(
                                  ModelVersion.newBuilder()
                                      .setId("a78efb13f7774433aa2fd4864f41f0e6")
                              )
                      )
                      .addNodeInputs(NodeInput.newBuilder().setNodeId("detect-concept"))
              )
              .addNodes(
                  WorkflowNode.newBuilder()
                      .setId("image-to-text")
                      .setModel(
                          Model.newBuilder()
                              .setId("9fe78b4150a52794f86f237770141b33")
                              .setModelVersion(
                                  ModelVersion.newBuilder()
                                      .setId("d94413e582f341f68884cac72dbd2c7b")
                              )
                      )
                      .addNodeInputs(NodeInput.newBuilder().setNodeId("image-crop"))
              )
      )
      .build()
);

if (postWorkflowsResponse.getStatus().getCode() != StatusCode.SUCCESS) {
    throw new RuntimeException("Post workflows failed, status: " + postWorkflowsResponse.getStatus());
}
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="gRPC NodeJS" %}
```javascript
// Insert here the initialization code as outlined on this page:
// https://docs.clarifai.com/api-guide/api-overview/api-clients#client-installation-instructions

stub.PostWorkflows(
    {
        user_app_id: {
            app_id: "e83440590d104cee97ef84af1856837d"
        },
        workflows: [
            {
                id: "visual-text-recognition-id",
                nodes: [
                    {
                        id: "detect-concept",
                        model: {
                            id: "2419e2eae04d04f820e5cf3aba42d0c7",
                            model_version: {
                                id: "75a5b92a0dec436a891b5ad224ac9170"
                            }
                        }
                    },
                    {
                        id: "image-crop",
                        model: {
                            id: "ce3f5832af7a4e56ae310d696cbbefd8",
                            model_version: {
                                id: "a78efb13f7774433aa2fd4864f41f0e6"
                            }
                        },
                        node_inputs: [
                            {node_id: "detect-concept"}
                        ]
                    },
                    {
                        id: "image-to-text",
                        model: {
                            id: "9fe78b4150a52794f86f237770141b33",
                            model_version: {
                                id: "d94413e582f341f68884cac72dbd2c7b"
                            }
                        },
                        node_inputs: [
                            {node_id: "image-crop"}
                        ]
                    },
                ]
            }
        ]
    },
    metadata,
    (err, response) => {
        if (err) {
            throw new Error(err);
        }

        if (response.status.code !== 10000) {
            console.log(response.status);
            throw new Error("Post workflows failed, status: " + response.status.description);
        }
    }
);
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="cURL" %}
```text
curl -X POST 'https://api.clarifai.com/v2/users/me/apps/{{app}}/workflows' \
    -H 'Authorization: Key {{PAT}}' \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    --data-raw '{
        "workflows": [
            {
                "id": "visual-text-recognition-id",
                "nodes": [
                    {
                        "id": "detect-concept",
                        "model": {
                            "id": "2419e2eae04d04f820e5cf3aba42d0c7",
                            "model_version": {
                                "id": "75a5b92a0dec436a891b5ad224ac9170"
                            }
                        }
                    },
                    {
                        "id": "image-crop",
                        "model": {
                            "id": "ce3f5832af7a4e56ae310d696cbbefd8",
                            "model_version": {
                                "id": "a78efb13f7774433aa2fd4864f41f0e6"
                            }
                        },
                        "node_inputs": [
                            {
                                "node_id": "general-concept"
                            }
                        ]
                    },
                    {
                        "id": "image-to-text",
                        "model": {
                            "id": "9fe78b4150a52794f86f237770141b33",
                            "model_version": {
                                "id": "d94413e582f341f68884cac72dbd2c7b"
                            }
                        },
                        "node_inputs": [
                            {
                                "node_id": "image-crop"
                            }
                        ]
                    },
                ]
            }
        ]
    }'
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}
